GROUP LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH
AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE
PROGRAM




 Community Unit School District 308


                 RELIANCE STANDARD LIFE
                     INSURANCE COMPANY
                       Home Office: Chicago, Illinois
           Administrative Office: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

                       CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE

We certify that you (provided you belong to a class described on the
Schedule of Benefits and your completed enrollment card is attached)
are insured, for the benefits which apply to your class, under Group
Policy No. GL 154631 issued to Community Unit School District 308, the
Policyholder.

When loss of life covered under the Policy occurs, we will pay the
amount stated on the Schedule of Benefits to the named beneficiary,
subject to provisions entitled Beneficiary and Facility of Payment.

This Certificate is not a contract of insurance. It contains only the major
terms of insurance coverage and payment of benefits under the Policy.
It replaces all certificates that may have been issued to you earlier.




                 Secretary                         President

       If you have any questions about your insurance, or need
                 assistance, please call (800) 922-0509.


                GROUP LIFE INSURANCE CERTIFICATE

This Group Life Certificate replaces any previous Group Life Certificates
                        and is dated February 26, 2016.




LRS-6441 Ed. 11/84

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                     Page

SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS ................................................................. 1.0

DEFINITIONS ...................................................................................... 2.0

GENERAL PROVISIONS .................................................................... 3.0

EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION ............................................ 4.0

CONVERSION PRIVILEGE ................................................................. 5.0

BENEFICIARY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT ................................... 6.0

SETTLEMENT OPTIONS .................................................................... 7.0

WAIVER OF PREMIUM IN EVENT OF TOTAL DISABILITY .............. 8.0

ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE.......... 9.0

SEAT BELT AND AIR BAG BENEFIT ............................................... 10.0

CLAIMS PROVISIONS ...................................................................... 11.0

DEPENDENT LIFE INSURANCE ...................................................... 12.0

EXTENSION OF COVERAGE UNDER THE FAMILY AND
MEDICAL LEAVE ACT AND UNIFORMED SERVICES
EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT (USERRA) 13.0

PORTABILITY ................................................................................... 14.0

GROUP TERM LIFE INSURANCE ACCELERATED BENEFIT
RIDER ................................................................................................ 15.0

ACCELERATED BENEFIT RIDER DISCLOSURE ........................... 16.0

                      SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS

EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 2016

ELIGIBLE CLASSES: Each active, Full-time and Part-time Principal,
Director, Superintendent and Assistant Superintendent, except any
person employed on a temporary or seasonal basis.

INDIVIDUAL EFFECTIVE DATE: The day you become eligible.

AMOUNT OF INSURANCE:

Basic Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment: $100,000.

Supplemental Life (Applicable only to you if you elected Supplemental
coverage and are paying the applicable premium): $10,000 to $500,000
in increments of $10,000, not to exceed five (5) times Earnings.

The above Basic and Supplemental amounts cannot exceed a combined
maximum of seven (7) times Earnings.

Amounts of supplemental insurance over $200,000 are subject to our
approval of your proof of good health.       However, any proof of good
health required due to late application for this insurance (See
EFFECTIVE DATE OF INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE) will be at no expense
to us.

For Insureds age 70 and over, the Amount of Basic Life, Accidental
Death and Dismemberment and Supplemental Life Insurance is subject
to automatic reduction. Upon the Insured's attainment of the specified
age below, the Amount of Basic Life, Accidental Death and
Dismemberment and Supplemental Life Insurance will be reduced to the
applicable percentage. This reduction also applies to Insureds who are
age 70 or over on their Individual Effective Date.

     Age         Percentage of available or in force amount at age 69
     70-74                                  65%
      75+                                   50%




LRS-6441-1 Ed. 9/89            Page 1.0

Dependent Life:

Spouse Amount:         $5,000 to $500,000 in increments of $5,000
Child Amount:
    birth to 6 months:       $1,000
    6 months and over:       $2,000 to $10,000 in increments of $2,000

The Spouse Amount of Insurance may not exceed 100% of your amount.

Amounts of Insurance for spouses over $50,000 are subject to our
approval of your spouse's proof of good health. However, any proof of
good health required due to late application for this insurance (See
EFFECTIVE DATE OF DEPENDENT INSURANCE) will be at no
expense to us.

The Spouse Amount of Insurance will terminate upon your attainment of
age 70 or when you retire, whichever occurs first.

The Life amount will be reduced by any benefit paid under the
Accelerated Benefit Rider.

CHANGES IN AMOUNT OF INSURANCE: Increases and decreases in
the Amount of Insurance because of changes in age, class or earnings (if
applicable) are effective on the first of the month coinciding with or next
following the date of the change.

With respect to increases in the Amount of Insurance, you must be
Actively At Work on the date of the change. If you are not Actively At
Work when the change should take effect, the change will take effect on
the day after you have been Actively At Work for one full day. However,
if you have the right to choose your amount of Supplemental insurance,
proof of good health will be required when you change your selection to
increase the amount of your Supplemental insurance. Such proof must
be approved by us for the increase to take effect.

Premium changes due to your age will occur on the first of the month
coinciding with or next following the birthday that causes you to enter the
next age bracket.




LRS-6441-1 Ed. 9/89            Page 1.1

If an increase in, or initial application for, an Amount of Insurance is due
to a life event change (such as marriage, birth or specific changes in
employment status), proof of good health will not be required for
amounts up to the guaranteed issue amount, provided you apply within
thirty-one (31) days of such life event.

CONTRIBUTIONS: You are not required to contribute toward the cost of
the Basic Insurance. You are required to contribute toward the cost of
the Supplemental Insurance. It is applicable to you only if you elected
Supplemental coverage and are paying the applicable premium. You are
required to contribute toward the cost of Dependent Life Insurance.




LRS-6441-1 Ed. 9/89              Page 1.2

                               DEFINITIONS

"We," "us" and "our" means Reliance Standard Life Insurance Company.

"You," "your" and "yours" means a person who meets the eligibility
requirements of the Policy and is enrolled for this insurance.

"Actively at work" and "active work" means actually performing on a Full-
time or Part-time basis each and every duty pertaining to your job in the
place where and the manner in which the job is normally performed.
This includes approved time off such as vacation, jury duty and funeral
leave, but does not include time off as a result of injury or illness.

"Full-time" means working for the Policyholder for a minimum of 25 hours
during your regularly scheduled work week.

"Part-time" means working for the Policyholder for a minimum of 20
hours during your regularly scheduled work week.

"The date you retire" or "retirement" means the effective date of your:

    (1) retirement pension benefits under any plan of a federal, state,
        county or municipal retirement system, if such pension benefits
        include any credit for employment with the Policyholder;
    (2) retirement   pension    benefits  under     any plan       whichthe
        Policyholder sponsors, or makes or has made contributions;
    (3) retirement benefits under the United States Social Security Act of
        1935, as amended, or under any similar plan or act.

"Earnings", as used in the SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS section, means
your annual salary received from the Policyholder on the first of the
month just before the date of loss, prior to any deductions to a 401(k)
and Section 125 plan. Earnings does not include commissions, overtime
pay, bonuses, incentive pay or any other special compensation not
received as basic salary.




LRS-6441-234 Ed. 06/01          Page 2.0

If hourly employees are insured, the number of hours worked during a
regularly scheduled work week, not to exceed forty (40) hours per week,
times fifty-two (52) weeks, will be used to determine annual earnings.

"Total Disability" as used in the WAIVER OF PREMIUM IN EVENT OF
TOTAL DISABILITY section, means your complete inability to engage in
any type of work for wage or profit for which you are suited by education,
training or experience.

"Loss" as used in the ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT
INSURANCE section, with respect to:

    (1) hand or foot, means the complete severance through or above
         the wrist or ankle joint;

    (2) the eye, speech or hearing, means total and irrecoverable loss
         thereof.

"Dependents" as used in the DEPENDENT LIFE INSURANCE section,
means:

    (1) your legal spouse; and

    (2) your unmarried child(ren), from birth to 20 years, who is
         financially dependent upon you for support. Adoptive, foster and
         step-children are considered Dependents if they are in your
         custody; and

    (3) your unmarried child(ren), attending a college or other school on
         a full-time basis, who is financially dependent upon you for
         support, up to age 26; and

    (4) your child(ren) beyond the limiting age who is incapable of self-
         sustaining employment by reason of intellectual disability or
         physical handicap and who is chiefly dependent on you for
         support and maintenance.




LRS-6441-234 Ed. 06/01           Page 2.1

Additionally, if you have a domestic partnership or civil union that is
legally recognized under applicable state law or an Affidavit of Domestic
Partnership is in effect and on file with the Policyholder, your:

    (1) domestic partner or civil union partner; and
    (2) child(ren), provided he/she otherwise meets the definition of
    Dependent,

of such legally recognized domestic partnership or civil union or named
on an Affidavit will be considered your "Dependent".

When your domestic partner or civil union partner is covered under the
Policy, the word "spouse" as it appears in the Policy will be deemed to
include "domestic partner" and "civil union partner" unless the context
indicates otherwise.

"Injury" means accidental bodily injury which is caused directly by
accidental means and which occurs while your coverage under the
Policy is in force.




LRS-6441-234 Ed. 06/01          Page 2.2

                          GENERAL PROVISIONS

INCONTESTABILITY

Any statements made by you or any Insured Dependent, or on your
behalf or any Insured Dependent's behalf to persuade us to provide
coverage, will be deemed a representation, not a warranty.                This
provision limits our use of these statements in contesting the amount of
insurance for which you are or any Insured Dependent is covered. The
following rules apply to each statement:

    (1) No statement will be used in a contest unless:

        (a) it is in a written form signed by you or any Insured
             Dependent, or on your behalf or any Insured Dependent's
             behalf; and

        (b) a copy of such written instrument is or has been furnished to
             you or any Insured Dependent, your or any Insured
             Dependent's beneficiary or legal representative.

    (2) If the statement relates to your or any Insured Dependent's
        insurability, it will not be used to contest the validity of insurance
        which has been in force, before the contest, for at least two (2)
        years during your or an Insured Dependent's lifetime.

ASSIGNMENT

Ownership of any benefit provided under the Policy may be transferred
by assignment. An irrevocable beneficiary must give written consent to
assign this insurance. Written request for assignment must be made in
duplicate at our Administrative Offices.        Once recorded by us, an
assignment will take effect on the date it was signed. We are not liable
for any action we take before the assignment is recorded.




LRS-6441-3 Ed. 12/93              Page 3.0

                 EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION

EFFECTIVE DATE OF INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE: If the Policyholder
pays the entire premium, your insurance will go into effect on the date
stated on the Schedule of Benefits. If you pay a part of the premium, you
must apply in writing for the insurance to go into effect. You will become
insured on the later of:

    (1) the Individual Effective Date stated on the Schedule of Benefits,
         if you apply on or before that date; or

    (2) the date you apply, if you apply within thirty-one (31) days from
         the date you first met the eligibility requirements; or

    (3) the date we approve any required proof of good health. We
         require proof of good health if you apply:

         (a) after thirty-one (31) days from the date you first become
             eligible; or
         (b) after you terminated this insurance but you remained in a
             class eligible for this insurance; or
         (c) for an Amount of Insurance greater than the Amount of
             Insurance shown on the Schedule of Benefits as not subject
             to our approval of a person's good health; or
         (d) for an Amount of Insurance greater than you were insured
             for under the prior group life insurance plan carrier, if
             applicable; or
         (e) after being eligible for coverage under a prior group life
             insurance plan for more than thirty-one (31) days but did not
             elect to be covered under that prior plan; or

    (4) the date premium is remitted.

Changes in your amount of insurance are effective as shown on the
Schedule of Benefits.

If you are not actively at work on the day your insurance is to go into
effect, the insurance will go into effect on the day you return to active
work for one full day.




LRS-6441-4 Ed. 11/07             Page 4.0

TERMINATION OF INSURANCE: Your insurance will terminate on the
first of the following to occur:

     (1) the date the Policy terminates; or

     (2) the date you cease to be in a class eligible for this insurance; or

     (3) the end of the period for which premium has been paid for you;
          or

     (4) the date you enter military service (not including Reserve or
          National Guard).

CONTINUATION OF INSURANCE: Your insurance may be continued,
by payment of premium, beyond the date you cease to be eligible for this
insurance, but not longer than:

     (1) twelve (12) months, if due to illness or injury; or
     (2) one (1) month, if due to temporary lay-off or approved leave of
          absence; or
     (3) three (3) months while on scheduled school break.




LRS-6441-4 Ed. 11/07            Page 4.1

                       CONVERSION PRIVILEGE

You can use this privilege when your insurance is no longer in force. It
has several parts. They are:

A. If the insurance ceases due to termination of employment or
   membership in any of the Policy's classes, an individual Life
   Insurance Policy may be issued. You are entitled to a policy without
   disability or supplemental benefits.         You must make written
   application for the policy within thirty-one (31) days after you
   terminate. The first premium must also be paid within that time. The
   issuance of the policy is subject to the following conditions:

   (1) The policy will, at your option, be on any one of our forms,
        except for term life insurance. It will be the standard type issued
        by us for the age and amount applied for;

   (2) The policy issued will be for an amount not over what you had
        before you terminated;

   (3) The premium due for the policy will be at our usual rate. This
        rate will be based on the amount of insurance, class of risk and
        your age at date of policy issue; and

   (4) Proof of good health is not required.

B. If the insurance ceases due to the termination or amendment of the
   Policy, an individual Life Insurance Policy can be issued. You must
   have been insured for at least five (5) years under the Policy. The
   same rules as in A above will be used, except that the face amount
   will be the lesser of:

   (1) The amount of your Group Life benefit under the Policy. This
        amount will be less any amount you are entitled to under any
        group life policy issued by us or another insurance company; or

   (2) $10,000.

C. If the insurance reduces, as may be provided in the Policy, an
   individual Life Insurance Policy can be issued. The same rules as in
   A above will be used, except that the face amount will not be greater
   than the amount which ceased due to the reduction.




LRS-6441-32 Ed. 9/83           Page 5.0

D. If you die during the time provided in A above in which you are
   entitled to apply for an individual policy, we will pay the benefit under
   the Group Policy that you were entitled to convert. This will be done
   whether or not you applied for the individual policy.

E. Any policy issued with respect to A, B or C above will be put in force
   at the end of the thirty-one (31) day period in which application must
   be made.

F. If you are entitled to have an individual policy issued to you without
   proof of health, then you must be given notice of this right at least
   fifteen (15) days before the end of the period specified above. Such
   notice must be: (1) in writing; and (2) presented or mailed to you by
   the Policyholder. If not, you will have an additional period in order to
   do so. This additional period will end fifteen (15) days after you are
   given notice. This period will not extend beyond sixty (60) days after
   the expiration date of the period provided above. This insurance will
   not be continued beyond the period provided in A above.




LRS-6441-32 Ed. 9/83           Page 5.1

              BENEFICIARY AND FACILITY OF PAYMENT

BENEFICIARY: The beneficiary will be as named in writing by you to
receive benefits at your death. This beneficiary designation must be on
file with us or the Plan Administrator and will be effective on the date you
sign it. Any payment made by us before receiving the designation shall
fully discharge us to the extent of that payment.

If you name more than one beneficiary to share the benefit, you must
state the percentage of the benefit that is to be paid to each beneficiary.
Otherwise, they will share the benefit equally.

The beneficiary's consent is not needed if you wish to change the
designation. His/her consent is also not needed to make any changes in
the Policy.

If the beneficiary dies at the same time as you, or within fifteen (15) days
after your death but before we received written proof of your death,
payment will be made as if you survived the beneficiary, unless noted
otherwise.

If you have not named a beneficiary, or the named beneficiary is not
surviving at your death, any benefits due shall be paid to the first of the
following classes to survive you:

     (1) your legal spouse, legally recognized civil union/domestic partner
         or domestic partner named on an Affidavit of Domestic
         Partnership;
     (2) your surviving child(ren) (including legally adopted child(ren)), in
         equal shares;
     (3) your surviving parents, in equal shares;
     (4) your surviving siblings, in equal shares; or, if none of the above,
     (5) your estate.

We will not be liable for any payment we have made in good faith.

FACILITY OF PAYMENT: If a beneficiary, in our opinion, cannot give a
valid release (and no guardian has been appointed), we may pay the
benefit to the person who has custody or is the main support of the
beneficiary. Payment to a minor shall not exceed $1,000.

If you have not named a beneficiary, or the named beneficiary is not
surviving at your death, we may pay up to $2,000 of the benefit to the
person(s) who, in our opinion, have incurred expenses in connection with



LRS-6441-34 Ed. 11/00           Page 6.0

your last illness, death or burial.

The balance of the benefit, if any, will be held by us, until an individual or
representative:

    (1) is validly named; or
    (2) is appointed to receive the proceeds; and
    (3) can give valid release to us.

The benefit will be held with interest at a rate set by us.

We will not be liable for any payment we have made in good faith.




LRS-6441-34 Ed. 11/00           Page 6.1

                         SETTLEMENT OPTIONS

You may elect a different way in which payment of the Amount of
Insurance can be made. You must provide a written request to us, for
our approval, at our Administrative Office. If the option covers less than
the full amount due, we must be advised of what part is to be under an
option. Amounts under $2,000 or option payments of less than $20.00
each are not eligible.

If no instructions for a settlement option are in effect at your death, the
beneficiary may make the election, with our consent.

Settlement Options are described in the Policy.




LRS-6441-7 Ed. 3/82            Page 7.0

       WAIVER OF PREMIUM IN EVENT OF TOTAL DISABILITY

We will extend the Amount of Insurance during a period of Total
Disability for one (1) year if:

    (1) you become totally disabled prior to age 60;
    (2) the Total Disability begins while you are insured;
    (3) the Total Disability begins while the Policy is in force;
    (4) the Total Disability lasts for at least 9 months;
    (5) the premium continues to be paid; and
    (6) we receive proof of Total Disability within one (1) year from the
         date it began.

After proof of Total Disability is approved by us, neither you or the
Policyholder is required to pay premiums. Also, any premiums paid from
the start of the Total Disability will be returned.

We will ask you to submit annual proof of continued Total Disability. The
Amount of Insurance may then be extended for additional one (1) year
periods. You may be required to be examined by a Physician approved
by us as part of the proof. We will not require you to be examined more
than once a year after the insurance has been extended two (2) full
years.

The Amount of Insurance extended will be limited to the amount of basic
group life coverage and any applicable supplemental group life coverage
on your life that was in force at the time that Total Disability began
excluding any additional benefits. This amount will not increase. This
amount will reduce or cease at any time it would reduce or cease if you
had not been totally disabled. If you die, we will be liable under this
extension only if written proof of death is received by us.

The Amount of Insurance extended for you will cease on the earliest of:

    (1) the date you no longer meet the definition of Total Disability; or
    (2) the date you refuse to be examined; or
    (3) the date you fail to furnish the required proof of Total Disability;
         or
    (4) the date you become age 70; or
    (5) the date you retire.

You may use the conversion privilege when this extension ceases.
Please refer to the Conversion Privilege section for rules. You are not
entitled to conversion if you return to work and are again eligible for the



LRS-6441-35 Ed. 11/00             Page 8.0

insurance under the Policy. If you use the conversion privilege, benefits
will not be payable under the Waiver of Premium in Event of Total
Disability provision unless the converted policy is surrendered to us.




LRS-6441-35 Ed. 11/00           Page 8.1

     ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DISMEMBERMENT INSURANCE

Nothing in this section will change or affect any of the terms of the Policy
other than as specifically set out in this section. All the Policy provisions
not in conflict with these provisions shall apply to this section.

If you suffer any one of the losses listed below, as a result of an injury,
we will pay the benefit shown. The loss must be caused solely by an
accident which occurs while you are insured, and must occur within 365
days of the accident. Only one benefit (the larger) will be paid for more
than one loss resulting from any one accident. The Amount of Insurance
can be found on the Schedule of Benefits.

  LOSS OF:                                                          AMOUNT OF INSURANCE:

  Life ............................................................................... The Full Amount
  Both Hands .................................................................. The Full Amount
  Both Feet ..................................................................... The Full Amount
  The Sight of Both Eyes ................................................ The Full Amount
  Speech and Hearing .................................................... The Full Amount
  One Hand and One Foot ............................................. The Full Amount
  One Hand and the Sight of One Eye ........................... The Full Amount
  One Foot and the Sight of One Eye ............................ The Full Amount
  One Hand ........................................................ One-Half of the Amount
  One Foot .......................................................... One-Half of the Amount
  Speech or Hearing ........................................... One-Half of the Amount
  The Sight of One Eye ...................................... One-Half of the Amount




LRS-6441-310 Ed. 11/01                       Page 9.0

EXCLUSIONS

A benefit will not be payable for a loss:

   (1) caused by suicide or intentionally self-inflicted injuries; or

   (2) caused by or resulting from war or any act of war, declared or
       undeclared; or

   (3) caused by sickness or disease; or

   (4) sustained during your commission or attempted commission of
       an assault or felony; or

   (5) caused by your acute or chronic alcoholic intoxication; or

   (6) caused by your voluntary consumption of an illegal or controlled
       substance or a non-prescribed narcotic or drug.




LRS-6441-310 Ed. 11/01         Page 9.1

                   SEAT BELT AND AIR BAG BENEFIT

Seat Belt Benefit

We will pay an additional Seat Belt Benefit if, due to an Injury sustained
while driving or riding in a private passenger Four-Wheel Vehicle, you
suffer loss of life for which an Accidental Death Benefit is payable under
the Policy.

Once we receive the police accident report which confirms that you were
properly strapped in a Seat Belt at the time of the accident, we will pay a
benefit equal to 10% of the Accidental Death Benefit payable under the
Policy.

If the police report does not clearly establish that you were or were not
wearing a Seat Belt at the time of the accident which caused your death,
the benefit payable will be $1,000 in lieu of the benefit described above.

"Seat Belt" means an unaltered factory-installed lap and/or shoulder
restraint designed to keep a person steady in a seat.

Air Bag Benefit

In addition to the Seat Belt Benefit, we will also pay an Air Bag Benefit if
such private passenger Four-Wheel Vehicle is equipped with a factory-
installed Air Bag and the police accident report clearly establishes that
you were positioned in a seat which is designed to be protected by an Air
Bag and were properly strapped in the Seat Belt when the Air Bag
inflated.

Once we receive the police accident report which confirms that the Air
Bag inflated properly upon impact, we will pay a benefit equal to 5% of
the Accidental Death Benefit payable under the Policy.

"Air Bag" means an unaltered factory-installed supplemental restraint
system designed to inflate upon impact to protect a person from bodily
Injury during an accident.

"Four-Wheel Vehicle" means a private passenger automobile, a truck-
type vehicle which has a manufacturer's rated load capacity of 2,000
pounds or less, or a self-propelled motor home, all of which are
registered for private passenger use and designated for transportation on
public roadways.




LRS-6441-158 Ed. 10/05         Page 10.0

Maximum Benefit Payable ­ The total combined maximum benefit
payable under the Seat Belt and Air Bag Benefit is $25,000.

EXCLUSIONS

No benefit is payable for any loss sustained by you:

   (1) if you were driving or riding in any private passenger Four-Wheel
       Vehicle which was being used in a race, speed or endurance
       test, or for acrobatic or stunt driving at the time of the accident;

   (2) if you were not wearing a Seat Belt for any reason;

   (3) while you were sharing a Seat Belt.




LRS-6441-158 Ed. 10/05         Page 10.1

                           CLAIMS PROVISIONS

NOTICE OF CLAIM: Written notice must be given to us within 31 days
after the Loss occurs, or as soon as reasonably possible. The notice
should be sent to us at our Administrative Offices or to our authorized
agent. The notice should include your name and the Policy Number.

CLAIM FORMS: When we receive written notice of a claim, we will send
claim forms to the claimant within 15 days. If we do not, the claimant will
satisfy the requirements of written proof of loss by sending us written
proof as shown below. The proof must describe the occurrence, extent
and nature of the loss.

PROOF OF LOSS: For any covered Loss, written proof must be sent to
us within 90 days. If it is not reasonably possible to give proof within 90
days, the claim is not affected if the proof is sent as soon as reasonably
possible. In any event, proof must be given within 1 year, unless the
claimant is legally incapable of doing so.

PAYMENT OF CLAIMS: Payment will be made as soon as proper proof
is received. All benefits will be paid to you, if living. Any benefits unpaid
at the time of death, or due to death, will be paid to the beneficiary.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: At our own expense, we will have the right
to have you examined as reasonably necessary when a claim is pending.
We can have an autopsy made unless prohibited by law.

LEGAL ACTION: No legal action may be brought against us to recover
on the Policy within 60 days after written proof of loss has been given as
required by the Policy. No action may be brought after three (3) years
(Kansas, five (5) years; South Carolina and Michigan, six (6) years) from
the time written proof of loss is required to be submitted.




LRS-6441-67 Ed. 4/94            Page 11.0

                      DEPENDENT LIFE INSURANCE

Nothing in this section will change or affect any of the terms of the Policy
other than as specifically set out in this section. All the Policy provisions
not in conflict with these provisions shall apply to this section.

When an Insured Dependent dies, we will pay the applicable benefit
shown on the Schedule of Benefits to you. If you are deceased, then the
benefit will be paid to your beneficiary. Only dependents who meet the
definition of Dependents can be insured for this benefit.

A person may not have coverage both as an Insured Person and as a
covered dependent. Only one eligible spouse may cover the eligible
children as Insured Dependents. The spouse may be covered as a
dependent if not covered as an Insured Person.

EFFECTIVE DATE OF DEPENDENT INSURANCE

If the Policyholder pays the entire premium, the insurance for a
Dependent will become effective on the later of:

    (1) the date you become eligible for Dependent Life Insurance; or

    (2) the date the dependent meets the definition of Dependent.

If you pay a portion of the dependent premium, you may insure your
dependents by making written application. In this case, the insurance for
Dependents will take effect on the later of:

    (1) the date you become eligible for Dependent Life Insurance; or

    (2) the date the dependent meets the definition of Dependent, if
         application is made on or before that date; or

    (3) the date of application, if application is made within thirty-one
         (31) days from the date the dependent first becomes eligible for
         this insurance; or




LRS-6441-33 Ed. 05/02           Page 12.0

     (4) the date we approve any required proof of good health. We
         require proof of good health if you make application for
         dependent insurance:

         (a) after thirty-one (31) days from the date the dependent first
              becomes eligible for this insurance; and

         (b) after a prior termination of insurance as long as you remain
              in a class eligible for dependent insurance.

After this Insurance is in force for one dependent, application is not
required for added dependents.

For dependents (other than newborns) who are confined in a hospital or
at home on the date on which they would otherwise become insured,
insurance will be effective as of the date the confinement ends.

TERMINATION OF DEPENDENT LIFE INSURANCE

The insurance for an Insured Dependent will terminate on the first of the
following dates:

     (1) the date this Section terminates; or

     (2) the date the dependent is no longer a Dependent as defined; or

     (3) the end of the period for which premium has been paid by you or
         the Policyholder; or

     (4) the date your insurance terminates; or

     (5) the date you retire.

CONVERSION OF DEPENDENT LIFE INSURANCE

If the insurance of an Insured Dependent terminates because:

     (1) you terminate employment or membership in the classes eligible
         for this insurance; or

     (2) you die; or

     (3) the dependent ceases to be eligible for this insurance;




LRS-6441-33 Ed. 05/02            Page 12.1

then the dependent may convert his/her insurance to an individual policy.
The conversion is subject to the following rules:

     (1) a written application for the conversion policy must be received
        by us within thirty-one (31) days after the dependent's insurance
        terminates.     The first premium must be sent in with the
        application; and

     (2) the premium due for the policy will be at our usual rates. This
        rate will be based on the amount of insurance, class of risk and
        the age of the dependent on the date the policy is issued; and

     (3) the policy may be any life plan we currently issue, except term
        insurance; and

     (4) proof of good health is not required; and

     (5) the policy issued will be for an amount not over what the
        dependent had before termination under the Policy; and

     (6) the policy issued will not have disability or supplemental benefits.

If the dependent's insurance ceases due to termination or amendment of
the Policy, an individual policy can be issued. The dependent must have
been insured for at least five (5) years under the Policy. The same rules
as shown above will be used, except that the face amount will be the
lesser of:

     (1) the amount of dependent life insurance under the Policy. This
        amount will be less any amount of group life insurance the
        dependent receives or becomes eligible for within thirty-one (31)
        days after the Policy terminates; or

     (2) $10,000.

If an Insured Dependent should die during the time provided in (1) above
in which he/she is entitled to apply for an individual policy, we will pay the
benefit under the Group Policy that he/she was entitled to convert. This
will be done whether or not the dependent applied for the individual
policy, or the first premium was paid.




LRS-6441-33 Ed. 05/02           Page 12.2

Any individual policy issued with respect to this section will be effective at
the end of the thirty-one (31) day period in which application must be
made.

If an Insured Dependent is entitled to have an individual policy issued to
him/her without proof of health, then you must be given notice of this right at
least fifteen (15) days before the end of the period specified above. Such
notice must be: (1) in writing; and (2) presented or mailed to you by the
Policyholder. If not, you will have an additional period in order to do so. This
additional period will end fifteen (15) days after you are given notice. This
period will not extend beyond sixty (60) days after the expiration date of the
period provided above. This insurance will not be continued beyond the
period provided in (1) above.




LRS-6441-33 Ed. 05/02            Page 12.3

  EXTENSION OF COVERAGE UNDER THE FAMILY AND MEDICAL
               LEAVE ACT AND UNIFORMED SERVICES
   EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS ACT (USERRA)

Family and Medical Leave of Absence:

We will continue your coverage and that of any Insured Dependent, if
applicable, in accordance with the Policyholder's policies regarding leave
under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended, or any
similar state law, as amended, if:

  (1) the premium for you and your Insured Dependents, if applicable,
       continues to be paid during the leave; and
  (2) the Policyholder has approved your leave in writing and provides a
       copy of such approval within thirty-one (31) days of our request.

As long as the above requirements are satisfied, we will continue
coverage until the later of:

  (1) the end of the leave period required by the Family and Medical
       Leave Act of 1993, as amended; or
  (2) the end of the leave period required by any similar state law, as
       amended.

Military Services Leave of Absence:

We will continue your coverage and that of any Insured Dependents, if
applicable, in accordance with the Policyholder's policies regarding
Military Services Leave of Absence under USERRA if the premium for
you and your Insured Dependents, if applicable, continues to be paid
during the leave.

As long as the above requirement is satisfied, we will continue coverage
until the end of the period required by USERRA.

The Policy, while coverage is being continued under this Military
Services Leave of Absence extension, does not cover any loss which
occurs while on active duty in the military if such loss is caused by or
arises out of such military service, including but not limited to war or any
act of war, whether declared or undeclared.

While you are on a Family and Medical Leave of Absence for any reason
other than your own illness, injury or disability or Military Services Leave
of Absence you will be considered Actively at Work. Any changes such
as revisions to coverage due to age, class or salary changes, as



LRS-6441-633 Ed. 06/08         Page 13.0

applicable, will apply during the leave except that increases in the
amount of insurance, whether automatic or subject to election, will not be
effective if you are not considered Actively at Work until you have
returned to Active Work for one (1) full day.

A leave of absence taken in accordance with the Family and Medical
Leave Act of 1993 or USERRA will run concurrently with any other
applicable continuation of insurance provision in the Policy.

Your coverage and that of any Insured Dependents, if applicable, will
cease under this extension on the earliest of:

  (1) the date the Policy terminates; or
  (2) the end of the period for which premium has been paid for you; or
  (3) the date such leave should end in accordance with the
       Policyholder's policies regarding Family and Medical Leave of
       Absence and Military Services Leave of Absence in compliance
       with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended and
       USERRA.

Should the Policyholder choose not to continue your coverage during a
Family and Medical Leave of Absence and/or Military Services Leave of
Absence, your coverage as well as any dependent coverage, if
applicable, will be reinstated.




LRS-6441-633 Ed. 06/08         Page 13.1

                                PORTABILITY

You may continue Supplemental Insurance coverage under the Policy if
coverage would otherwise terminate because you cease to be an Eligible
Person, for reasons other than the termination of the Policy, or your
retirement, provided you:
     (1) notify us in writing within thirty-one (31) days from the date you
         cease to be eligible; and
     (2) remit the necessary premiums when due; and
     (3) are not approved for extension of coverage under the Waiver of
         Premium in Event of Total Disability provision, if applicable; and
     (4) have not been terminated under the Waiver of Premium in Event
         of Total Disability provision, if applicable; and
     (5) have been covered for twelve (12) months under the Policy
         and/or the prior group life insurance policy.

Such coverage may be continued for a period of two (2) years beginning
on the date you are no longer an Eligible Person.

The amount of Supplemental Insurance coverage available under the
Portability provision will be the current amount of coverage you are
insured for under the Policy on the last day you were Actively at Work.
However, the amount of coverage will never be more than:
     (1) the highest amount of life insurance available to Eligible
         Persons; or
     (2) a total of $500,000 from all RSL group life and accidental death
         and dismemberment insurance combined,
whichever is less.

The premium charged to continue Supplemental Insurance coverage will
be based on the prevailing rate charged to Insureds who choose to
continue coverage under the Portability provision. Such premium will be
billed directly to you on a quarterly, semi-annual or annual basis.

If your Supplemental Insurance coverage under the Policy includes
Accidental Death and Dismemberment, then such benefits may be
continued under the Policy.

Supplemental Insurance coverage continued under this provision for you
will terminate on the first of the following to occur:
     (1) the date the Policy terminates; or
     (2) the end of the period for which premium has been paid; or
     (3) the date you are covered under another group term life
         insurance policy; or



LRS-6441-83 Ed. 07/05            Page 14.0

     (4) at the end of the two (2) year period; or
     (5) at any time Supplemental Insurance coverage would normally
         terminate according to the terms of the Policy had you continued
         to be an Eligible Person.

In addition, Supplemental Insurance coverage will reduce at any time it
would normally reduce according to the terms of the Policy had you
continued to be an Eligible Person.

If Supplemental Insurance coverage terminates due to (1) or (4) above, it
may be converted to an individual life insurance policy. The conversion
will be subject to the terms and conditions set forth under the Conversion
Privilege.




LRS-6441-83 Ed. 07/05          Page 14.1

  GROUP TERM LIFE INSURANCE ACCELERATED BENEFIT RIDER

THIS RIDER ADDS AN ACCELERATED BENEFIT PROVISION.
RECEIPT OF THIS ACCELERATED BENEFIT WILL REDUCE THE
DEATH BENEFIT AND MAY BE TAXABLE. IN ADDITION, RECEIPT
OF THIS BENEFIT MAY AFFECT THE INSURED'S ELIGIBILITY FOR
MEDICAID        OR      OTHER        GOVERNMENT         BENEFITS        OR
ENTITLEMENTS. INSUREDS SHOULD SEEK ASSISTANCE FROM
THEIR PERSONAL TAX ADVISOR.

Attached to Group Policy Number: GL 154631
Issued to Group Policyholder: Community Unit School District 308

This Rider is attached to and made a part of the Policy indicated above.
Your Certificate is hereby amended, in consideration of the application for
this coverage, by the addition of the following benefit.     In this Rider,
Reliance Standard Life Insurance Company will be referred to as "we",
"us", "our".

DEFINITIONS: This section gives the meaning of terms used in this
Rider. The Definitions of the Policy and Certificate also apply unless they
conflict with Definitions given here.

"Certified" or "Certification" refers to a written statement, made by a
Physician on a form provided by us, as to the Insured's Terminal Illness.

"Certificate" means the document, issued to each Insured, which explains
the terms of his coverage under the Group Life Insurance Policy.

"Death Benefit" means the insurance amount payable under the
Certificate at death of the Insured. It does not include any amount that is
only payable in the event of Accidental Death.

"Insured" means the primary Insured and his/her insured Dependents, if
any.

"Physician" means a duly licensed practitioner, acting within the scope of
his license, who is recognized by the law of the state in which diagnosis
is received. The Physician may not be the Insured or a member of his
immediate family.

"Policy" means the Group Life Insurance Policy issued to the Group
Policyholder under which the Insured is covered.

"Terminally Ill" or "Terminal Illness" refers to an Insured's illness or
physical condition that is Certified by a Physician to reasonably be



LRS-8596-001-0200 IL            Page 15.0

expected to result in death in less than 24 months.

"Written Request" means a request made, in writing, by the Insured to us.

All pronouns include either gender unless the context indicates otherwise.

DESCRIPTION OF COVERAGE: This benefit is payable to the Insured if
the Insured's coverage is in force and the Insured is Certified as
Terminally Ill: at any time for loss resulting from accidental injury; or after
having been insured under this Rider for at least 30 days prior to a loss
resulting from sickness. In order for this benefit to be paid:

    (1) the Insured must make a Written Request; and

    (2) we must receive from any assignee or irrevocable beneficiary
         their signed acknowledgment and agreement to payment of this
         benefit.

We may, at our option, confirm the terminal diagnosis with a second
medical exam performed at our own expense.

AMOUNT OF THE ACCELERATED BENEFIT: The Accelerated Benefit
will be an amount equal to 75% of the Death Benefit applicable to the
Insured under the Policy on the date of the Certification of Terminal
Illness, subject to a maximum benefit of $500,000. This benefit may be
paid as a single lump sum or in installment payments mutually agreed to
by us and the Insured. The Accelerated Benefit is payable one time only
for any Insured under this Rider.

EFFECT OF BENEFIT: If an Insured becomes eligible for, and elects to
receive this benefit, it will have the following effects:

    (1) The Death Benefit payable for such Insured will be reduced by an
         amount equal to the Accelerated Benefit paid such Insured.
         Such reduced amount of insurance will be subject to all
         Certificate provisions dealing with changes in the amount of
         insurance and reductions or termination for age or retirement.
         The amount of the Accelerated Benefit plus the corresponding
         Death Benefit will not exceed the amount that would have been
         paid as the Death Benefit in the absence of this Rider.

    (2) Any amount of insurance that would otherwise be continued
         under a Waiver of Premium provision will be reduced
         proportionately, as will the maximum Face Amount available
         under the Conversion Privilege.




LRS-8596-001-0200 IL             Page 15.1

MISSTATEMENT OF AGE OR SEX: The Accelerated Benefit will be
adjusted to reflect the amount of benefit that would have been purchased
by the actual premium paid at the correct age and sex.

TERMINATION OF AN INDIVIDUAL'S COVERAGE UNDER THIS
RIDER: The coverage of any Insured under this Rider will terminate on
the first of the following:

    (1) the date his coverage under the Policy terminates;

    (2) the date of payment of the Accelerated Benefit for his Terminal
          Illness; or

    (3) the date he attains age 75.

ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS: This Rider takes effect on the Effective
Date shown. It will terminate on the date the Group Policy terminates. It
is subject to all the terms of the Group Policy not inconsistent herewith.


In witness whereof, we have caused this Rider to be signed by our
Secretary.




                                   Secretary




LRS-8596-001-0200 IL            Page 15.2

             ACCELERATED BENEFIT RIDER DISCLOSURE
                    FOR RIDER LRS-8596-001-0200 IL

The Accelerated Benefit option is an advance payment of life insurance
proceeds under our group term life insurance program.            This option
allows the Insured to access the face amount of his insurance coverage
prior to death if he is diagnosed as having less than 24 months to live.
There are no restrictions placed on how the proceeds may be used.

ELIGIBILITY: The Insured is eligible to exercise the Accelerated Benefit
option if, after having been covered under the Rider for at least thirty (30)
days (this thirty (30) day elimination period does not apply with respect to
a condition resulting from an accident), he has been diagnosed as
having a medical condition which will result in a drastically limited life-
span and his doctor certifies that death will occur within 24 months. We
reserve the right to investigate further to verify eligibility.

THE BENEFIT: The Accelerated Benefit Option pays 75% of the death
benefit, to a maximum of $500,000, in a single lump sum or in installment
payments mutually agreed to by us and the Insured. The portion of the
death benefit which is not accelerated is payable to his beneficiary at his
death.

There is no additional premium charge for the Accelerated Benefit Rider.
There is no reduction in the premium for the group term life insurance
coverage if benefits become payable under this Rider.

If the group Policy and/or the Insured's life insurance benefits under the
Group Policy terminate, all of the Insured's rights under the Accelerated
Benefit Rider also terminate.

EFFECT OF BENEFIT:            Receipt of the Accelerated Benefit may be
taxable and could adversely affect the Insured's eligibility for Medicaid or
other government benefits or entitlements. It is recommended that the
Insured consult his personal tax advisor for clarification of the current tax
law with respect to accelerated death benefits.




LRS-8596-004-0200 IL            Page 16.0

                                   NOTICE OF
                            PROTECTION PROVIDED BY
            ILLINOIS LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE GUARANTY
                                 ASSOCIATION

This notice provides a brief summary description of the Illinois Life and
Health Insurance Guaranty Association ("the Association") and the
protection it provides for policyholders. This safety net was created under
Illinois law that determines who and what is covered and the amounts of
coverage.

The Association was established to provide protection in the unlikely event
that your member life, annuity or health insurance company becomes
financially unable to meet its obligations and is placed into Receivership by
the Insurance Department of the state in which the company is domiciled. If
this should happen, the Association will typically arrange to continue
coverage and pay claims, in accordance with Illinois law, with funding from
assessments paid by other insurance companies.

The basic protections provided by the Association per insolvency are:

     ß Life Insurance
             o   $300,000 in death benefits
             o   $100,000 in cash surrender or withdrawal values
     ß Health Insurance
             o   $500,000 in hospital, medical and surgical insurance
                 benefits*
             o   $300,000 in disability insurance benefits
             o   $300,000 in long-term care insurance benefits
             o   $100,000 in other types of health insurance benefits
     ß Annuities
             o   $250,000 in withdrawal and cash values

*The maximum amount of protection for each individual, regardless of the
number of policies or contracts, is $300,000, except special rules apply to
hospital, medical and surgical insurance benefits for which the maximum
amount of protection is $500,000.

Note:     Certain policies and contracts may not be covered or fully
covered. For example, coverage does not extend to any portion of a policy
or contract that the insurer does not guarantee, such as certain investment
additions to the account value of a variable life insurance policy or a variable
annuity contract.      There are also residency requirements and other
limitations under Illinois law.



LRS-8884-0114

To learn more about these protections, as well as protections relating to
group contracts or retirement plans, please visit the Association's website at
www.ilhiga.org or contact:


Illinois Life and Health               Illinois Department of Insurance
Insurance Guaranty Association         4th Floor
8420 West Bryn Mawr Avenue,
                                       320 West Washington Street
Suite 550
Chicago, Illinois 60631-3404           Springfield, Illinois 62767
(773) 714-8050                         (217) 782-4515

Insurance companies and agents are not allowed by Illinois law to use
the existence of the Association or its coverage to encourage you to
purchase any form of insurance.            When selecting an insurance
company, you should not rely on Association coverage. If there is any
inconsistency between this notice and Illinois law, then Illinois law will
control.




LRS-8884-0114

 Claim Procedures and
ERISA Statement of Rights


            CLAIM PROCEDURES FOR CLAIMS FILED WITH
         RELIANCE STANDARD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
                    ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 2002


CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS

Claims may be submitted by mailing the completed form along with any
requested information to:

Reliance Standard Life Insurance Company
Claims Department
P.O. Box 8330
Philadelphia, PA 19101-8330

Claim forms are available from your benefits representative or may be
requested by writing to the above address or by calling 1-800-644-1103.

TIMING OF NOTIFICATION OF BENEFIT DETERMINATION

Non-Disability Benefit Claims
If a non-disability claim is wholly or partially denied, the claimant shall be
notified of the adverse benefit determination within a reasonable period of
time, but not later than 90 days after our receipt of the claim, unless it is
determined that special circumstances require an extension of time for
processing the claim. If it is determined that an extension of time for
processing is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished
to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. In no
event shall such extension exceed a period of 90 days from the end of
such initial period.    The extension notice shall indicate the special
circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the
benefit determination is expected to be rendered.

Calculating time periods.     The period of time within which a benefit
determination is required to be made shall begin at the time a claim is
filed, without regard to whether all the information necessary to make a
benefit determination accompanies the filing.

Disability Benefit Claims
In the case of a claim for disability benefits, the claimant shall be notified
of the adverse benefit determination within a reasonable period of time,
but not later than 45 days after our receipt of the claim. This period may
be extended for up to 30 days, provided that it is determined that such
an extension is necessary due to matters beyond our control and that
notification is provided to the claimant, prior to the expiration of the initial
45-day period, of the circumstances requiring the extension of time and
the date by which a decision is expected to be rendered. If, prior to the
end of the first 30-day extension period, it is determined that, due to
matters beyond our control, a decision cannot be rendered within that
extension period, the period for making the determination may be
extended for up to an additional 30 days, provided that the claimant is
notified, prior to the expiration of the first 30-day extension period, of the
circumstances requiring the extension and the date by which a decision
is expected to be rendered. In the case of any such extension, the
notice of extension shall specifically explain the standards on which
entitlement to a benefit is based, the unresolved issues that prevent a
decision on the claim, and the additional information needed to resolve
those issues, and the claimant shall be afforded at least 45 days within
which to provide the specified information.

Calculating time periods.      The period of time within which a benefit
determination is required to be made shall begin at the time a claim is
filed, without regard to whether all the information necessary to make a
benefit determination accompanies the filing. In the event that a period
of time is extended due to a claimant's failure to submit information
necessary to decide a claim, the period for making the benefit
determination shall be tolled from the date on which the notification of
the extension is sent to the claimant until the date on which the claimant
responds to the request for additional information.

MANNER        AND     CONTENT        OF     NOTIFICATION      OF    BENEFIT
DETERMINATION

Non-Disability Benefit Claims
A Claimant shall be provided with written notification of any adverse
benefit determination.      The notification shall set forth, in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant, the following:

1. The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination;
2. Reference to the specific plan/policy provisions on which the
    determination is based;
3. A description of any additional material or information necessary for

    the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such
    material or information is necessary; and
4. A description of the review procedures and the time limits applicable
    to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to
    bring a civil action under section 502(a) of the Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act of 1974 as amended ("ERISA") (where
    applicable), following an adverse benefit determination on review.

Disability Benefit Claims
A claimant shall be provided with written notification of any adverse
benefit determination. The notification shall be set forth, in a manner
calculated to be understood by the claimant, the following:

1. The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination;
2. Reference to the specific plan/policy provisions on which the
    determination is based;
3. A description of any additional material or information necessary for
    the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such
    material or information is necessary;
4. A description of the review procedures and the time limits applicable
    to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to
    bring a civil action under section 502(a) of the Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act of 1974 as amended ("ERISA") (where
    applicable), following an adverse benefit determination on review;
    and
5. If an internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was
    relied upon in making the adverse determination, either the specific
    rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion; or a statement that
    such a rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied
    upon in making the adverse determination and that a copy of such
    rule, guideline, protocol, or other criterion will be provided free of
    charge to the claimant upon request.

APPEALS OF ADVERSE BENEFIT DETERMINATIONS

Appeals of adverse benefit determinations may be submitted in
accordance with the following procedures to:

Reliance Standard Life Insurance Company
Quality Review Unit
P.O. Box 8330
Philadelphia, PA 19101-8330

Non-Disability Benefit Claims
1. Claimants (or their authorized representatives) must appeal within 60
    days following their receipt of a notification of an adverse benefit
    determination, and only one appeal is allowed;
2. Claimants shall be provided with the opportunity to submit written
    comments, documents, records, and/or other information relating to
    the claim for benefits in conjunction with their timely appeal;
3. Claimants shall be provided, upon request and free of charge,
    reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and
    other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits;
4. The review on (timely) appeal shall take into account all comments,
    documents, records, and other information submitted by the claimant
    relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was
    submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination;
5. No deference to the initial adverse benefit determination shall be
    afforded upon appeal;
6. The appeal shall be conducted by an individual who is neither the
    individual who made the (underlying) adverse benefit determination
    that is the subject of the appeal, nor the subordinate of such
    individual; and
7. Any medical or vocational expert(s) whose advice was obtained in
    connection with a claimant's adverse benefit determination shall be
    identified, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in
    making the benefit determination.

Disability Benefit Claims
1. Claimants (or their authorized representatives) must appeal within
    180 days following their receipt of a notification of an adverse benefit
    determination, and only one appeal is allowed;
2. Claimants shall be provided with the opportunity to submit written
    comments, documents, records, and/or other information relating to
    the claim for benefits in conjunction with their timely appeal;
3. Claimants shall be provided, upon request and free of charge,
    reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records, and

     other information relevant to the claimant's claim for benefits;
4. The review on (timely) appeal shall take into account all comments,
     documents, records, and other information submitted by the claimant
     relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was
     submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination;
5. No deference to the initial adverse benefit determination shall be
     afforded upon appeal;
6. The appeal shall be conducted by an individual who is neither the
     individual who made the (underlying) adverse benefit determination
     that is the subject of the appeal, nor the subordinate of such
     individual;
7. Any medical or vocational expert(s) whose advice was obtained in
     connection with a claimant's adverse benefit determination shall be
     identified, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in
     making the benefit determination; and
8. In deciding the appeal of any adverse benefit determination that is
     based in whole or in part on a medical judgment, the individual
     conducting the appeal shall consult with a health care professional:

     (a) who has appropriate training and experience in the field of
         medicine involved in the medical judgment; and
     (b) who is neither an individual who was consulted in connection with
         the adverse benefit determination that is the subject of the
         appeal; nor the subordinate of any such individual.

TIMING OF NOTIFICATION OF BENEFIT DETERMINATION ON
REVIEW

Non-Disability Benefit Claims
The claimant (or their authorized representative) shall be notified of the
benefit determination on review within a reasonable period of time, but
not later than 60 days after receipt of the claimant's timely request for
review, unless it is determined that special circumstances require an
extension of time for processing the appeal. If it is determined that an
extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the
extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the
initial 60-day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of
60 days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall
indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the
date by which the determination on review is expected to be rendered.

Calculating time periods.      The period of time within which a benefit
determination on review is required to be made shall begin at the time an
appeal is timely filed, without regard to whether all the information

necessary to make a benefit determination on review accompanies the
filing. In the event that a period of time is extended as above due to a
claimant's failure to submit information necessary to decide a claim, the
period for making the benefit determination on review shall be tolled from
the date on which the notification of the extension is sent to the claimant
until the date on which the claimant responds to the request for additional
information.

Disability Benefit Claims
The claimant (or their authorized representative) shall be notified of the
benefit determination on review within a reasonable period of time, but
not later than 45 days after receipt of the claimant's timely request for
review, unless it is determined that special circumstances require an
extension of time for processing the appeal. If it is determined that an
extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the
extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the
initial 45-day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of
45 days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall
indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the
date by which the determination on review is expected to be rendered.

Calculating time periods.    The period of time within which a benefit
determination on review is required to be made shall begin at the time an
appeal is timely filed, without regard to whether all the information
necessary to make a benefit determination on review accompanies the
filing. In the event that a period of time is extended as above due to a
claimant's failure to submit information necessary to decide a claim, the
period for making the benefit determination on review shall be tolled from
the date on which the notification of the extension is sent to the claimant
until the date on which the claimant responds to the request for additional
information.

MANNER       AND     CONTENT      OF     NOTIFICATION      OF    BENEFIT
DETERMINATION ON REVIEW

Non-Disability Benefit Claims
A claimant shall be provided with written notification of the benefit
determination on review. In the case of an adverse benefit determination
on review, the notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be
understood by the claimant, the following:

1. The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination;
2. Reference to the specific plan/policy provisions on which the
     determination is based;

3. A statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and
    free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents,
    records, and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for
    benefits; and
4. A statement of the claimant's right to bring an action under section
    502(a) of ERISA (where applicable).

Disability Benefit Claims
A claimant must be provided with written notification of the determination
on review. In the case of adverse benefit determination on review, the
notification shall set forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by the
claimant, the following:

1. The specific reason or reasons for the adverse determination;
2. Reference to the specific plan/policy provisions on which the
    determination is based;
3. A statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and
    free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents,
    records, and other information relevant to the claimant's claim for
    benefits;
4. A statement of the claimant's right to bring an action under section
    502(a) of ERISA (where applicable);
5. If an internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was
    relied upon in making the adverse determination, either the specific
    rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion; or a statement that
    such a rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion was relied
    upon in making the adverse determination and that a copy of such
    rule, guideline, protocol, or other criterion will be provided free of
    charge to the claimant upon request; and
6. The following statement: "You and your plan may have other
    voluntary alternative dispute resolution options, such as mediation.
    One way to find out what may be available is to contact your local
    U.S. Department of Labor Office and your State insurance regulatory
    agency (where applicable)."

DEFINITIONS


The term "adverse benefit determination" means any of the following: a
denial, reduction, or termination of, or a failure to provide or make
payment (in whole or in part) for, a benefit, including any such denial,
reduction, termination, or failure to provide or make payment that is
based on a determination of a participant's or beneficiary's eligibility to
participate in a plan.




The term "us" or "our" refers to Reliance Standard Life Insurance
Company.




The term "relevant" means:

A document, record, or other information shall be considered relevant to
a claimant's claim if such document, record or other information:

·   Was relied upon in making the benefit determination;

·   Was submitted, considered, or generated in the course of making the
    benefit determination, without regard to whether such document,
    record or other information was relied upon in making the benefit
    determination;

·   Demonstrates compliance with administrative processes and
    safeguards designed to ensure and to verify that benefit claim
    determinations are made in accordance with governing plan
    documents and that, where appropriate, the plan provisions have
    been applied consistently with respect to similarly situated claimants;
    or

·   In the case of a plan providing disability benefits, constitutes a
    statement of policy or guidance with respect to the plan concerning
    the denied benefit of the claimant's diagnosis, without regard to
    whether such advice or statement was relied upon in making the
    benefit determination.

The term "Reliance Standard Life Insurance Company" means Reliance
Standard    Life  Insurance     Company     and/or    itsauthorized   claim
administrators.



                     ERISA STATEMENT OF RIGHTS

As a participant in the Group Insurance Plan, you may be entitled to
certain rights and protections in the event that the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) applies. ERISA provides that all
Plan Participants shall be entitled to:

Receive Information About Your Plan and Benefits

Examine, without charge, at the Plan Administrator's office and at other
specified locations, such as worksites and union halls, all documents
governing the Plan, including insurance contracts and collective
bargaining agreements, and a copy of the latest annual report (Form
5500 Series) filed by the Plan with the U.S. Department of Labor and
available at the Public Disclosure Room of the Employee Benefits
Security Administration.

Obtain, upon written request to the Plan Administrator, copies of
documents governing the operation of the Plan, including insurance
contracts and collective bargaining agreements, and copies of the latest
annual report (Form 5500 Series) and updated summary plan
description. The Administrator may make a reasonable charge for the
copies.

Receive a summary of the Plan's annual financial report.         The Plan
Administrator is required by law to furnish each participant with a copy of
this summary annual report.

Prudent Actions by Plan Fiduciaries

In addition to creating rights for Plan Participants, ERISA imposes duties
upon the people who are responsible for the operation of the employee
benefits plan. The people who operate your Plan, called "fiduciaries" of
the Plan, have a duty to do so prudently and in the interests of you and
other Plan Participants and Beneficiaries.        No one, including your
employer, your union, or any other person, may fire you or otherwise
discriminate against you in any way to prevent you from obtaining a
benefit or exercising your rights under ERISA.

Reliance Standard Life Insurance Company shall serve as the claims
review fiduciary with respect to the insurance policy and the Plan. The
claims review fiduciary has the discretionary authority to interpret the
Plan and the insurance policy and to determine eligibility for benefits.
Decisions by the claims review fiduciary shall be complete, final and
binding on all parties.

Enforce Your Rights

If your claim for a benefit is denied or ignored, in whole or in part, you
have a right to know why this was done, to obtain copies of documents
relating to the decision without charge, and to appeal any denial, all
within certain time schedules.

Under ERISA, there are steps you can take to enforce the above rights.
For instance, if you request a copy of the Plan documents or the latest
annual report from the Plan and do not receive them within 30 days, you
may file suit in a Federal court. In such a case, the court may require the
Plan Administrator to provide the materials and pay you up to $110 a day
until you receive the materials, unless the materials were not sent
because of reasons beyond the control of the Administrator. If you have
a claim for benefits which is denied or ignored, in whole or part, you may
file suit in a state or Federal court. In addition, if you disagree with the
Plan's decision or lack thereof concerning the qualified status of a
domestic relations order or a medical child support order, you may file
suit in Federal Court. If it should happen that Plan Fiduciaries misuse
the Plan's money, or if you are discriminated against for asserting your
rights, you may seek assistance from the U.S. Department of Labor, or
you may file suit in a Federal court. The court will decide who should
pay court costs and legal fees. If you are successful, the court may
order the person you have sued to pay these costs and fees. If you lose,
the court may order you to pay these costs and fees, for example, if it
finds your claim is frivolous.

Assistance with Your Questions

If you have any questions about your Plan, you should contact the Plan
Administrator. If you have any questions about this statement or about
your rights under ERISA, or if you need assistance in obtaining
documents from the Plan Administrator, you should contact the nearest
Office  of   the  Employee      Benefits Security Administration,    U.S.
Department of Labor, listed in your telephone directory or the Division of
Technical Assistance and Inquiries, Employee Benefits Security
Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue,
N.W., Washington, D.C.          20210.  You may also obtain certain
publications about your rights and responsibilities under ERISA by calling
the publications hotline of the Employee Benefits Security Administration.

                  Home Office: Chicago, Illinois
         Administrative Office: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania




GL 154631                                                  CLASS 1
Ed. 2/2016

